1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?  

 I am a lifelong language learner who loves learning new ways of communicating and their associated thought patterns.  This is why I spent a year in Chile learning Spanish in context and it is why I would like to expand my knowedgle and unlock new ways of problem solving by learning to program.  I've been using Coursera and Codecademy to learn the basics of programming, but just like using Duolingo and Mangoconnect was not suffiecent to become fluent in Spanish, taking a few online courses is not enough to become a competent programmer. I believe that you must fully immerse yourself into a new language if you want to achieve fluency and profiency, and I believe the Ada program would provide that atmosphere.  I am also passionate about programming because I enjoy the challenge of finding out new ways to solve problems.  I worked through the Jumpstart problems and have been exposing myself to other problems through the sub reddits [r/learnprogramming](https://www.reddit.com/r/learnprogramming) and [r/programmingprompts](https://www.reddit.com/r/ProgrammingPrompts/).  Some of the problems have been relatively simple to solve, others such as the Accounts Generator took me over a day of thinking and trying out different solutions.  However, I find it very satisfying that with a determination, I can come back to a problem with three new potential solutions.  Which is great because I am also excited by the idea of continuous improvement and the ability to refactor code and find more succint ways to write something is exciting to me.  
 
2. If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?  

 In five years I see myself helping to adapt education to the changing demands of our technology driven world and empowering young people through progamming workshops.  Already in my career as a teacher, technology has been a huge tool in the learning process, however, there are a number of glaring flaws with the software that the school I've worked for have been using.  I believe that there is a large market for learning goal and skill based independent learning tools for use in the general classroom as well as for both remedial and advanced students.  I am excited to borrow ideas from successful apps like NewsELA and Duolingo as well as Classdojo and combine them to make applications that have fun reward systems, leveled readings and the ability to choose specific skills to focus on.  Additionally, I would design these apps to output student achievement data in an accessable format so the instructor would know where knowledge gaps or problem areas were.  Additionally, I deeply align with Ada’s mission to diversifying the technology sector.  I believe that the younger you can start this exposure, the more one foundational experience can demystify the STEM world and empower students to feel they can be successful regardless of how many reflections of themselves they see in that field.  It is for these reasons that I would like to take the skills I learn at Ada, and the experiences I gain working to design education apps, and use them to create workshops for schools in underserved and under resourced communities.  
 
3. After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community? http://adadevelopersacademy.org/program  

 First and foremost I would bring the mindset of suspending judgements to the Ada community.  I encountered and practiced this theory while a Corps Member for Teach for America but I have applied it widely since then.  With this mindset, rather than making assumptions about someone based on something they have done or said, you ask questions and attempt to understand where they are coming from.  For example, in Chile rather than assuming my students didn't care about my class, I asked them why they were continually 15-30 minutes late.  They were then able to give me the Chilean perspective on time, I was able to share my own cultural understanding of time and we were able to come up with an attendance rule that was an appropriate compromise.  I have found that this process of asking questions is a great way of overcoming differences and, if everyone is using it, of fostering a trusting and inclusive community.  Secondly, I would bring my own intersecting identities including being a queer female, along with an awareness of my privileged identity markers (these include but are not limited to being white, being young, being able bodied, being cisgendered), to the software development world, thereby contributing my schema and my awareness of that schema.  Finally, I would like to become an ally to Ada’s mission by providing experiential lessons on coding, leadership and inclusivity to young learners.  

4. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?

 My first year of teaching was a series of small wins with individual students relentlessly flanked by mistakes, mistakes which of course my middle school students ensured I would never forget.  I once stay up all night completing writing packets based on our reading of the book “Monster” by Walter Dean Myers only to forget to save the final draft and print 80 copies of the wrong 25 page packet.  Among the changes I had made was modifying a section where I asked the students to look at some graphs and statistics from studies on the US justice system.  In an effort to save paper, as we had to pay for our own, I retained as many pages of the packet as I could, and reprinted only the most necessary.  The day we got to the statistics, I learned something monumental, how to ask for help.  I called my assistant principal in halfway through the lesson, which was going up in flames, and asked her to help.  To help explain that these numbers came from independent studies and were not my personal beliefs, to refocus the class on our intended daily outcome which was to analyze prejudice in the justice system in preparation for proposing how the system could be improved upon, to help re-staple the packets which had been ripped up in protest.  And afterward to ask her how I might repair the fragile trusts I had damaged that day.  If I could redo this, I would reprint the page with the most loaded statistic at the end instead of the beginning and remove it from the packet.  I would spend one day having my students ask questions and make assumptions about how the justice system might profile different groups of people. I would do a whole class analysis of a light hearted statistic and have them explain the difference between an assumption, an opinion and a statistic.  I would connect the statistic to feelings, and would go back to the questions they had formed about profiling in the justice system and ask them to think of how people in these groups might feel about the justice system.  I think this was a crucial step that was missing, in order to make a difficult topic easier I had tried to focus on ‘just the facts’ but I did not provide a space for the very personal feelings that tied my students to these statistics.  The next day, before bringing up the statistics, I would have explained why I was personally invested in this assignment and why I had chosen a difficult topic and how I felt knowing that two of the students who used to be sitting in front of me were behind bars.  I would have also asked them to take notes in the margins of two things: how this makes me feel and what would I change.  I can’t undo the lesson, all I can do is learn: to listen to and validate the feeling and the realities of others, to take these feelings into consideration before acting, to ask more questions than I answer, that there is no shame in asking for help when you need it, and also, that it’s important to always save twice before quitting and review before printing.
